---
title: " Drupal and Xamarin, building the axai mobile application: Part 3"
lang: "en"
tags: []
date: "2014-11-12T20:07:00.000Z"
user: "gerardo"
aliases: ["blog/drupal-and-xamarin-building-axai-mobile-application-part-3"]
image: "drupalamedias.png"
---

<h3>Application specifics</h3><p>Like I wrote in <a href="/en/node/29">Part 1</a>, we have already experimented building cross platform HTML applications using Phonegap. Since our main technical background is in PHP / HTML / javascript / Drupal, Phonegap looked like the most viable option. The truth turned out to be completely different, I do believe that mobile html applications still have a niche and a viability in some projects, our experience trying to couple content from drupal into a Phonegap application hasn't been the best to say the least, that is why we started to look at other options, and for what we could see using the Xamarin Trial version, we thought we saw what we were looking for in terms of performance, look and feel, code maintenance,&nbsp; and the kind of things we could build using this technology.</p><p></p><p>In this part I am going to be talking about what decisions and techniques we chose and why, you might find useful tips about this kind of development particularly using Xamarin to achieve something like this.</p><p></p><h4>Xamarin.Forms</h4><p>First of all I am going to start with our decision to use Xamarin.Forms instead of a shared project approach with common business code and separate UI code for each platform. For an application like this, the decision is easy, Xamarin.Forms allows us to write the same UI code for both platforms, without having to dig a lot into the specifics of the underlying Android and iOS APIs. It is an abstraction layer built on top of the specific APIs, which have some limitations of course, but some of those limitations can be worked around writing custom renderers for some Xamarin.Forms elements, I will show how, a little bit further into this post.</p><p></p><h4>Project structure</h4><p>The project is setup as a PCL kind of solution, we decided this because at the time we started it, XAML for Xamarin.Forms in Xamarin Studio for Mac OS X, was only available in this form, and since XAML offers a neat way to define the layout of our application we wanted to experiment with it also.</p><p>So after creating our Xamarin.Forms Portable Solution, we ended up with 3 projects: Axai (which holds all the heavy logic and the UI Abstraction as well), Axai.Android (which has the start point and configuration for the Android application, as well as some code customizations in form of custom renderers), and the Axai.iOS project (which again has the starting point for the iOS application, configuration, and custom renders).</p><p></p><h4>MVVM Design Pattern</h4><p></p>